we're going to talk about 100 devs uh
we're gonna jump into like what is react
what are components what are props what
are State we're going to do some things
to help us learn react see some bad code
see some examples and then you're gonna
have some homework that's a reading and
some videos to watch and then next week
we put more stuff into practice we go
deeper I'm leaving out all the big words
tonight no disrespectful stuff we're
just going to do the basics see it
understand it and we'll get into the
heavy lifting tomorrow maybe a slightly
shorter class maybe a little End early
action tonight uh because we're gonna
we're just gonna let things sink in
marinate over the weekend right and then
come back with these Concepts baked in
react folks it's time for some react now
with react
see some examples in action uh but my my
warning uh is that we're going to be
baddies we're gonna see some bad code
I'm Gonna Save all the the heavy lifting
for next week
all right uh the place I always ask
folks to start with react and what I
assigned for homework was the react docs
you'll also notice that the beta version
of the new docs just dropped recently so
you might have been reading the docs and
noticed at the top bar that there's new
beta docs react
honestly has some of the best
documentation in the game when
you have to sit down and learn a new
library a new framework a new whatever
the place you're often going to start is
with the documentation
and sometimes that documentation is old
dusty it's confusing but the react docs
are pretty good so in the spirit of
getting used to reading documentation in
the spirit of knowing that you're gonna
be transitioning to a job where reading
documentations become part of your daily
life it makes sense to get started using
the react docs because they are just
that good for a lot of folks
you want to employ strategies to help
you get through reading some folks will
use readers that will read aloud stuff
to them some folks will install plugins
like B-Line reader which makes it easier
to read through things but you have to
get comfortable with the idea of reading
through material because a lot of times
there won't be books sorry sorry there
won't be videos there won't be tutorials
or the stuff you need isn't yet
available in those types of mediums and
so the reading is really important I
can't tell you how much of my day when
I'm learning new stuff is spent reading
documentation and I want you to get
comfortable with it before you're on the
job so the homework to start off with
start it with the docs
cool
now
if you've given it the good old 100 devs
try
right and you still need a little bit
more help Mine Wolf in their last
streams has actually walked through the
docks together so once again Community
talk give it the gold good old 100 devs
try right and then after you've given
that good old 100 try if you still need
a little bit more kind of working
together through it definitely check out
my own streams I'll link them in the uh
follow one follow-up
cool
let's start with a little bit of es6
plus review when I say es6 plus what the
heck do I mean
es6 plus what do I mean
mule said after 2015 okay yep acama
script yep so the standard of which we
use to build JavaScript is called
ecmascript and in 2015 a lot of
significant changes happened and it
started a development cycle that added
on to the specification for JavaScript
that added a lot of features and so we
call all these like newer features es6
plus so from 2015 forward kind of all
the latest stuff that gets baked in the
JavaScript and
a lot of these newer features that you
might not have come across too often are
actually heavily used in react so I like
to start off with just a little bit of
review uh just before we start looking
at code tonight the code really doesn't
matter like you don't have to understand
it you don't have to really get intimate
with it but as we go deeper especially
as you do the tutorials especially as we
get ready for next week you're going to
see some of this stuff quite often so it
makes us just to kind of highlight it
very quickly we're going to see classes
in the beginning
throw out the arguments class functions
I don't care about right now we'll get
into that all next week but you're going
to see classes again it's important to
note that classes enable us to spit out
objects we have this lovely Constructor
object that enables us to spit it out we
have the ability to have methods on our
classes and so the objects that we get
from these from these classes uh could
have properties that are signed and they
could have methods that were assigned as
well
you think of classes like our templates
for objects exactly we're going to be
using it to create components in the
beginning before switching to functional
components
all right
another thing that you're going to see
quite often are spread operators and
there's both an array spread and an
object spread so here are two variables
Foo and bar and we can see that they're
both set equal to an array when I do the
ellipses the three dots followed by the
variable name I can actually pull all
the values out of the array without
having to do things like looping through
it Etc right if I create a new array
with my square brackets using literal
notation
and I do the ellipses for the two
variables I wind up with a new array
that has all the values inside of it
kind of replacing any type of
concatenation that we might have done
before or anything we might have done to
like Loop through we can just spread out
these values and create really new
arrays
um and combine different arrays together
it makes life a lot
easier and when we start seeing react
code you're going to see this quite
often so it's helpful to know all right
this is spread operator all we're doing
is pulling the values out of that array
and using them folks are saying I use
this today on code Wars yeah this shows
up in tons of code Wars Solutions so
definitely something you want to have in
your repertoire
um definitely comes in clutch with code
words for sure
cool uh there's also an object spread
which you're going to see a lot
especially when it comes to react where
you have kind of your your style a part
of a component as well and so if we look
at this spread we have this lovely
object up here called default Style
and then inside of this style object you
can see that you can see that I spread
the object
and what's going to happen is all the
all of the values that were in this
by one second demo Pro all the values
that were inside of this default style
are now going to make their way into
this style object so what winds up
happening is that inside a style there
will also be a color block there will
also be a font size 12. there will also
be a font wait normal and I don't have
to constantly keep retyping this I can
just spread that object wherever I need
it right
now
um
this code
right uh
uh
this code that we're seeing is going to
pop up in the sorry I have something in
my eye Jesus
this code that you're seeing is going to
pop up in the two tutorials
um that I just shared with you on the
previous slides so just notice something
you're going to see kind of over and
over again all right
um
we have this idea here that we can pull
in these values and then something that
will also be helpful is that you have to
remember that it's still read from top
to bottom and so
what will wind up happening is we passed
in these three values with the spread
but we still override it the font weight
right from what was originally normal to
bold and so what you'll see here is that
the final style object has a font weight
of bold even though the spread was there
the Cascade is kind of still in effect
mm-hmm
it's kind of like a Cascade exactly
cool
all right so we're actually going to see
this tonight and so when we get to it
we'll see all right this is uh some
lovely spreading here uh we also have
destructuring and destructuring is a
really important concept that we've
actually seen already in our back end
code and
I think it's really important that you
take some time to
[Music]
understand it a little bit more deeply
because it just does come up a hell of a
lot and so free codecamp actually has a
wonderful article on destructuring that
is linked here in the slides you can
just click that link and read it make
that part of your homework uh the
beautiful thing about destructuring is
you can do it with arrays and you could
do it with objects
Jason Derulo hey how you doing thank you
for get this Subs hope you're doing well
good to see you
yeah
this is all over the place in uh react
yeah it really is you're gonna see the
structuring everywhere so it makes sense
to get comfortable with it
um here you can see some very simple
syntax where we have name and team and
we have two values and basically what
we're able to do is to pull all the
values out of this Ray and give them a
variable name that we can use so very
quickly instead of having to like Loop
through and like assign variable names
to each value inside of the array we can
use this notation and very quickly be
able to say all right name is now Bob
team is now 100 devs and loop through it
um array destruction we'll see we've
actually already seen object
destructuring and object restructuring
is kind of the same thing uh this is
kind of following the template from the
free codecamp article but in this case
we have mascot uh with name of Bob and
team of 100 devs and I'm able to create
individual variables of name and team
from this original object so when I say
name I get Bob when I say team I get 100
devs I'm not actually using the object
I'm just kind of pulling these values
out
we'll also destructure all the time
exactly uh where have we seen
where have we seen destructuring so far
yeah so when we did uh Brad's
authentication course
their authentication the ensure off the
insure guest right that ensure auth that
ensure guest
um that was an example of Destruction
right that was a big old object that
were able to pull out the pieces that we
wanted give them their own variables and
use them inside of our files and so we
carried that code over to our binary
upload boom as well and so we have
already been using destructuring even if
you haven't known that you're using
destructuring so we've seen it in our
passcode you're going to see it in react
all the time
right
cool
so definitely give this article a read
and when you see this syntax don't freak
out when you see the syntax here don't
freak out we see the syntax here don't
freak out you can definitely go through
and understand the structuring in more
detail and know that it comes up quite
often
cool
all right
this is uh this is my
my warning
tonight
we're not looking at good code
uh tonight
we're not looking at at clean code
we're not looking at
good react examples
we're looking at old stuff
we're looking at bad stuff we're going
to be baddies and write bad code because
tonight has nothing to do with the code
has nothing to do with actually writing
components it has nothing to do with the
actual syntax it will be using going
forward tonight is simply I want you to
walk away understanding why
so this is my warning if you're a code
weaning get out this is not going to be
a good class for you you're gonna have a
really rough time over the next two
hours uh so yeah my my warning that I'm
about to be a baddie we're gonna be
right to Bad Code we're going to look at
some bad code we're gonna welcome some
old code
all right
and uh I always get this question and I
just want to be very clear
um
I have people like I've read some of the
DMS in the past and I'll get this is a
very common DM especially when I get to
react Leon how dare you teach them that
that old way of doing things you're
setting them up for a a lifetime of
react failure
and my response is always
how many folks have you helped get jobs
in the last six months
because if it's less than a hundred
you're not on my numbers
you're not on my numbers if it's less
than a hundred you ain't all my numbers
that means hundreds of companies
hundreds of companies that I am seeing
people walk into
I am getting the real boots on the
ground
what they're experiencing what they're
working on and I could tell you right
now
one of the most common things that a lot
of my folks that are walking into
entry-level roles are doing is they're
updating react code bases from
class-based components to functional
components so
why would I not teach both
right why would I not show you some bad
code
why would I not say hey this is some
things you're probably still going to
see out in the wild right these are some
things that I'm seeing my students
having to work on quite frequently and
so yeah I'm I'm gonna still show it so
if you're a code weaning you're getting
ready to send me that message you
already know what my response is going
to be it's floats all over again exactly
it floats all over again but that being
said things have fundamentally changed
right and so I want that to be very
clear the the way that we're writing the
ACT is change it's changed over the last
year too and for the for the better
there there are lots of improvements
that we're going to talk about next week
that make our lives easier but tonight's
not about any of that it's just
understanding why I react
oh
all right react is a library for
handling your UI
that's it have a wonderful night
everybody hope you do well have a great
weekend I will see you on Sunday for the
continuation of the super review uh that
that's it
all right everybody let's figure out who
we're gonna raid let's see who's online
no please don't leave me
hmm react is a library for handling your
UI it very simply
allows you to write components which you
can reuse and extend when needed and it
does not handle anything else so I used
a couple big words there we're gonna
break down tonight but it's simply a
library for handling your UI bruh that's
it
what the heck is a UI that's my first
question of the chat what's a UI
to user interface exactly
it's a user interface it's the thing
that our users are going to interface
with to use your application right and
so if we look at an older UI this is
kind of Facebook's old UI for folks that
aren't that aren't hip yet
Facebook was the folks that kind of
initially helped develop and popularize
react and they used it to solve some
very real problems that they were facing
as their code base got larger okay so
what we're looking at right now is
Facebook's old UI like their older user
interface this is actually one of my
past uh cohort members uh Facebook page
they've given me permission to use it I
just blanked out anything that like
mattered um that's why there's a lot of
like missing stuff
all right
yeah
cool
now
when it comes to
Facebook sorry when it comes to react
being a library that handles your UI
right somebody asks what's the
difference between a library and a
framework uh you could think of a
library as kind of just a set of tools
but with no like Rhyme or Reason for how
you should use those tools there is no
opinionated stuff behind how you use
those tools it's not bringing in other
scaffolding for you to use those tools
it's just a collection of kind of like
methods right it's a collection of
things that enable you to do some stuff
we'll go deeper into that on Tuesday but
that that's kind of it like a
framework's going to give you a lot more
and some people kind of argue whether or
not react is technically a framework or
not but we'll be able to have that
argument better once we learn the basics
so let's save that argument for Tuesday
yeah that's a that's a big codeweedy uh
big codeweenie argument but I don't
think we're ready to have that argument
yet so let's learn a little bit and then
we can have the argument
cool all right so Facebook is I keep
saying Facebook react is simply a
library for handling your UI and
Facebook was running into some
significant trouble as their app was
getting bigger as their UI was handling
more stuff or seeing more stuff uh so
far we've built some very simple uis and
we introduced an architecture pattern uh
that we've been using recently uh what's
the big architecture pattern that we've
been using recently that helps keep our
applications organized
yeah it's been MVC
and if we're worried about the UI or the
user interface like the things that our
user is actually interacting with to do
things on our application
what part of the MVC structure is react
kind of going to be existing in
yeah it's going to be existing in this
view area we're actually going to
introduce an extension to MVC
um which which kind of adds a slightly
different twist to it but for now we're
just happy to exist in view territory
right our user interface is always going
to be handled by our views how we get
into things like view model we'll save
for later but the idea right now is that
Facebook needed a better way to handle
their views and so let's take a look at
Facebook's kind of older interface when
this kind of stuff started kicking off
so here's Facebook's old user interface
let's take a look at all this stuff
that's actually happening real quick we
have posts and posts kind of have all
their different complexities
likes time all this other fun stuff we
had stories that were popping off we had
uh creating posts I don't know if
statuses were still technically a thing
we had
um Marketplace and watch and knowing
whether or not there are new things to
watch or new things in the marketplace
we had all of our groups and whether or
not there are new posts in those groups
you could explore new things and see as
those pages were going up or down you
had your events that were coming through
and sometimes it'd be more or less
events you had information on the pages
that you created
you can see all the things that recently
happen you can see the games that your
friends are playing and you could drop
into those friend Pages again uh you
could keep track of whether or not your
friends were online or not you could see
all your events coming through your
friend requests all your stuff
all your stuff
on this page
and so
if we are thinking about kind of our
current understanding of how we handle
our views this is a colossal
unmaintainable hot garbage dumpster fire
of a mess
right because all of this stuff
is going to be in like one what
like the contents probably in like one
big ass HTML file or in our case right
now one ejs file
there's so much logic happening look at
all this logic right like are they is
there new stuff is is the likes going up
are there new posts do you have new
notifications do you have new note
friend requests like if we're going to
be handling all that pretty much like
conditional logic right that would
probably all be in One Singular what
right now with the way we've been doing
things
like one JS file right imagine having
all of this logic all of this logic like
all this client-side logic whether or
not it should be red or gray or green or
numbers going up going down like all
that stuff if we're thinking about it
right now
right
is maybe one ejs file maybe a few if we
figured out partials right maybe like
our header and footer got separate on
the partials which we could think of
partials as kind of like the beginning
of components right
but all this logic is all over the place
right
all this logic's all over the place all
this style is probably in one CSS file
until we start breaking out so there's
just too much if I take a developer and
I tell them to go and fix something on
this page it's over
right it's over to Define what to fix to
be afraid not to break anything like go
back to kind of even like our object
oriented lectures right like is any of
this stuff abstracted are we
encapsulating the right stuff like it's
like is there like is this maintainable
is it easy for new developers to jump in
and make changes and not lose sleep at
night and the answer is like no where
we're at in our journey right now the
answer is just a big fat no
but what I want you to do is I want you
to take a just a slightly deeper look at
this
and what we're going to notice
is that a lot of this stuff
is being
reused
okay I feel like a lot of this stuff is
kind of repeating
itself
right so we we we're going to have posts
and there's probably posts on this page
like your home page other people's pages
are those posts across different pages
really fundamentally any different
not really
and our stories that appear on this page
versus some other place really any
different no
and so what react really introduced
first
is an idea of a component
and then a component
really changes the game when you start
to look at a lot of these uis
a lot of these uis are using the same
thing over and over again right if we
look at these shortcuts
that kind of have the numbers going up
it's almost the exact same component
as the Explorer
so we could figure out our logic we
could figure out our styling we could
figure out kind of our content and store
it all in one component
and then be able to reuse it where we
need it to
right and so
this idea of breaking things down into
components really does add to the
maintainability of our code
and what I mean by that is that one we
can keep all of our stuff together right
we can keep our logic our styling our
our content into these components and
then these components can be reused not
only across the page but across our
entire application and maybe even across
other applications
is a post
on Facebook
fundamentally any different than a post
on
Instagram right Facebook owns both
Facebook and Instagram are they
fundamentally any different
no no I'm not saying this is how it
actually works at Facebook but the idea
is there right like we could write our
our post component once and then reuse
it across our application and maybe even
across other applications and then the
beautiful thing is if any other engineer
wanted to come and fix how posts work
they know exactly where to go they're
not jumping through a hot mess of a
Javascript file to find the logic for
likes
right they're not jumping through a hot
mess of 10 000 lines of CSS to change
how a post looks
right we can store all of that logic all
of that style all that content into one
reusable easy to maintain component
and so as we start to build out our
applications what we want to be able to
do is see components everywhere
if we could start breaking down our
applications into reusable components
not only does it like make your life
easier when you have to maintain or
update or work with other Engineers that
want to do the same but it also
accelerates your development because you
can just reuse them
I on uh two classes ago I showed you how
to
how to like make your MVPs stylistically
look good very quickly
what did I use to get that landing page
done in like three seconds
it was components that were using
Tailwind right and so I was literally
able to like re-cut like copy and reuse
my components and I had a nice header I
had a nice hero I had a nice footer and
boom boom boom
copy and pasted and and I'm done right
now this is kind of like a very simple
introduction to it but these reusability
of components they maintainability of
the components to make our lives a lot
easier especially as our uis start to
get more complex so tonight we're going
to talk about components we're going to
talk about something called props we're
going to talk about something called
State and when we use all three of these
things combined we can build uis
that handle our views that really
enable us to build faster build more
maintainable code and make it so that we
can
not have a hot dumpster fire of a
massive client-side JavaScript the mess
of client-side CSS and all this other
stuff that's coming through
so uh what I want to do now is we're at
the top of the hour so we're going to
take our break when we come back from
the break we're going to kind of dive
into this idea of con a components a
little bit deeper and then I'm going to
introduce something called props which
really does add flexibility to our
components and then we'll bring state in
and then we're going to see some real
examples play around with some real code
and hopefully walk away tonight having a
feeling about what react might do for us
as we continue on our Development Career
so we're talking about components
let's take a look at some of the
components that uh Facebook might have
been implementing here and let's kind of
think about it would be like without
components just again for a quick second
right
uh let's go and take a look at this uh
what do these red dots use like what do
these red dots used to mean
what was that for
yeah it was like new
like new stuff right like new things
were either there to be watched or
there's something new in the marketplace
and so if we were doing this like
originally somewhere in our JavaScript
file was like the code to change that
from Gray to red
um there's probably some sort of ajaxi
stuff going on we look at any of these
updates like there's some sort of way
that we're like actually getting new
information and updating it there's
probably like if we were doing it like
the way we've been doing it like would
there be a page refresh which if you're
refreshing the page for all of this crap
right like no that can't happen
um
if we look at something like the bell
too right like think about that for a
second uh that Bell could be like that
dark blue
it could be white it could have a number
the number has to keep going up
right like that's a that's a lot of
that's a lot of JavaScript to keep track
of and if we were doing it the way we've
been doing it this would all be like in
a singular file and imagine trying to
maintain all of this crap all right so
the beautiful thing about components
as Facebook's UI got bigger and bigger
more and more not maintainable by the
easy starts with imagination
components through react gave them some
really a beautiful things like if we
think about
this
kind of box here as a component
we can keep all of this logic about the
dots we could keep all this logic about
kind of when they show when they go from
Gray to to red when all that stuff
happens and better yet these dots can be
their own component that is reused in a
larger let's say like feed component or
something like that right so we can
actually start having components that
exist inside of other components or
extend right and so
we can really start to think about each
piece of this UI as a component and that
component could have all of its logic it
could have all of its CSS everything in
one place now some folks start to say
Leon well this kind of
this kind of seems like it violates what
like Leon you're telling me that you're
combining like your content your style
your JavaScript into this one entity
called a component uh we're starting to
get pretty close to violating separation
of concerns exactly and so what was the
goal of separation of concerns
what was the goal kind of subtly what
was the goal of separation of concerns
yeah thank you blah it was organization
right it was adding maintainability to
our code it was making exactly well our
life easier it was making it so that
when other developers came and worked on
our code
they knew where to go and what to do
and the real purpose behind separation
of concerns and why I introduced it so
early on is because I want you to think
critically about the code that you write
right like the reason why separation of
concern is introduced at that point is
because I need you to start thinking
like a developer what's going to make
your life easier what is going to make
the life of the other developers you're
working with their lives easier
and as we add more
stuff
to our developmental skill set we might
need to revisit some of these paradigms
and so in in essence I mean if you
really think about it
you got got
right you got got right like it's where
we started
but there might be some other things
that might be a little bit better now
we've been a little bit further along
down the timeline right and so when it
comes to separation of concerns
yes it was about adding maintainability
it was about adding organization
it's about separating presentation and
business logic and all that stuff is
still happening right all that stuff is
still happening with components
it's just a different way of going about
it and so will it actually be separated
onto individual files depending on how
you go about building out your
components some folks will have
everything in their component it will
have the style it will have the logic
it'll have everything in one place
sometimes people will separate out on
the individual files that are all
associated with one component that'll be
up to you so
and the team that you join about how how
together things are but you're still
adhering to it just in a slightly
different way and at the end it's still
achieving the same goals of that
maintainability that organization having
new developers know where to go when
they sit down
when they sit down and the big sweeping
change is that these dots now have to be
squares right they know where to go
right
they know where to go right so that's
the idea of components going forward now
as we start to think about components we
start to think about the reusability of
our components I want you to pay
attention to some things that were
happening in this UI
over here
there was something that would show up
when your friends were logged on
what would show up when any of your
contacts were online
anybody remember it would show up there
before messenger or things like that
yeah we would have a Green Dot that
showed up when that user was online now
a question for you
in terms of like logic like there's an
update that has happened there's
somebody online or there is something
new to watch or there's something new in
the marketplace is there really any
difference between
these dots
and these red dots
give me a little creative freedom here
hey Jesus hey we're in your territory
tonight
if you all have react questions just go
to just go to Nick
on Discord hey hey Zeus they're they're
there for you
yeah they're
uh there there's no difference
right there's real no difference between
the green dots that show up here
and the red dots that show up here
except for one change
and that change
is the color
so the beauty of react components
is that you can pass in what we call
props
and props give flexibility to your
components there's nothing fundamentally
different between the dots that show up
for new things in the marketplace and
the dots that show up when somebody's
logged on except for the color
and so with props we could pass the
color we care about into our components
right so the component that we're using
over here we would pass in a prop of red
and the component that we're using over
here we have passed in the component
sorry the prop of green
we could literally reuse the exact same
component
and just pass in different props we get
all the reusability we get all the
maintainability of having just to
maintain one component that is these
dots but we get the flexibility of
saying well over here the dots should be
read and over here the dot should be
green it's not something we have to go
and like fundamentally change our CSS
nothing we're going like fundamentally
change any logic we just need to pass in
a freaking color so it knows to be red
for this component and green for that
component that's it so components have
this wonderful bit of reusability if
somebody needs to edit how dots function
across our entire application they go to
our dots component right these dots are
going to show up here here here maybe 20
other places across our application
we're going to need these freaking dots
but in some places we're going to want
them to be read some place around with
them be green someplace where I want
them to be blue we don't have to want to
rebuild a whole new component we don't
have to rebuild all that logic redo all
that CSS we just want to be able to say
it should be red green blue and so when
we use the component we can pass that
color into it via props and get that
flexibility
cool
could you implement darker mode light
mode across the whole app simply with
props possibly yeah let's think about it
that way
yeah now let's think about another like
really cool like key thing to Facebook
when we're looking at our posts
right
we're thinking about posts they're a
posts on Facebook and they're also post
on Instagram we said earlier that a post
on Facebook was fundamentally exactly
the same thing as a post on Instagram
but there's probably just like a few key
differences what's probably the biggest
difference between a post on Instagram
and a post on Facebook
there's really only one big difference
right they both have like text or they
both have like a text they both have
like images right like they both have
like almost the same stuff but the real
big difference in my mind is like on
Facebook it's a thumbs up for liking and
it's a heart on Instagram
right
fundamentally the same thing right maybe
a little bit different in terms of like
text or image or something like that but
fundamentally a post on Facebook should
operate almost the exact same as a post
on Instagram
but the likes are a different icon
so what could we use
to keep the same component across two
different code bases that have
fundamentally the same logic the same
kind of styling almost right we just
want likes and to look different on one
versus the other what could we use to
pass in a thumbs up or a heart
yeah we could use our props on Facebook
to pass in a thumbs up
and we could use our props on Instagram
the pat to pass it a heart
so we now not only get the ability to
reuse the component throughout our
application on Facebook right like we
could have a post here on the home page
the news feed Etc but maybe we could
even reuse components across different
applications as well and this is
something I do a lot for me I have a lot
of components that I have written that
do key things for me and when I'm
building out a new application I can
just go yoink that component plop it
into my react code base and I know it
has everything that I need I know that
it has all the logic all the styling has
all the content that I need
and the ability to reuse that anywhere I
want is huge it really speeds up my
development
cool
uh so if you build a component you can
just reuse it over and over again yeah
that's kind of the idea because if we
really if we really look right like if
we really look at this UI
is there anything different between
shortcuts and explore
like look look at it is there anything
different between shortcuts and explore
not really
right
they have slightly different icons but
it seems like they have all the same
functionality they have all the same
style they have all the same logic right
like they still have like
the numbers going up so if we were to do
this originally right we might have
JavaScript handling each one of these
like numbers that are going up right we
might even have two different sets of
them for the different areas but we can
start to see this as a component so
maybe this number going up is a
component
the kind of list of
links is a component and so we can just
reuse these components wherever we want
so we kind of like copy and paste and
boom we got a new component we might
have to pass in slightly different text
these texts might be props that we're
passing in and we'll figure out ways to
do that later on but it's still the same
thing that we're just reusing
and any other page that needs this type
of thing we can reuse that component
over and over again and yes we can have
components inside of components right
and that that that makes it even more
maintainable because if I want to work
on these numbers going up right think
about this I want to work on these
numbers going up there's two ways we
could approach it
the old way I wanted to work on these
numbers going up these numbers going up
were probably intimately tied to this
content
right there is something in my
JavaScript file that was targeting this
specific place in the Dom there was some
JavaScript that I was like using that
like made that number work with that
content or at least that place in my
content
what if I decided you know what Leon
I don't want these numbers anymore
back in the day what would we have done
like if I just I don't want the numbers
anymore what would I have done back in
the day
well now I'm going to my age that cried
I'm going to my HTML or my ejs I'm
removing the content like the HTML like
whatever I'm using for my templating
language then I'm like trolling through
my JavaScript to find all the logic that
was controlling each of those numbers
going up maybe there were some like
fetches that were pulling data from
somewhere like so now like I gotta go
through all my content in my HTML I had
to go through all my JavaScript I might
even have to go through like a lot of my
CSS to pull out all those styles that I
was using I probably had specific
classes for it
um
because that was a big pain in the butt
but if this was a component
right if this was a component and that
component was just being used inside of
another component all I have to do
is remove that component and I'm done
I literally just I just I just delete
one line
I delete one line and it all goes away
I don't have to worry about going
through all these individual files and
if I want to add it back I just add one
one line and it's back right so we're
talking about like the maintainability
of our code like react can really change
your life right if if all your logic
your style all that stuff is campaigned
in one little area the ability to add
and remove stuff the ability to reuse
stuff across your application becomes
huge
yeah and we're going to see some
examples of the components in a second
we're going to see some examples of the
component don't worry we're gonna we're
gonna work through it gonna be able to
see kind of all these things in action
I'm going to show you props and action
I'm going to show you the the components
in action and how we can reuse them
all right
so we talked about components bringing
maintainability to our code the ability
to reuse components over and over again
which Dave's time and development effort
we talked about having props which
enable us to pass individual things into
our components that we can reuse them we
want something to be red versus green we
don't have to rewrite a whole new
component we can have that flexibility
by passing in props and then there is
one last thing that we have to add and
it's something called state
you could think about each component
having an object that exists inside that
component that we can access so state is
just an object on a component that we
can access now the really cool thing
about this object that exists inside the
component is that when the state changes
right when that object inside the
component changes well the component
foreign
we have components
we can add a flexibility or components
by passing in new things via props
but each of our components can also have
an object we're going to call State
and when that state changes our
components can react
now
let's think about it
friend logs on
right friend logs on
this dot component could have a state
that says
are they online
right now
is false
as soon as they log on
that state changes to
true
and since the state changed that
component's going to what
gonna react exactly it's going to react
it's going to go from Gray to Green
all that logic we need to know what
happens when the state changes the
component already knows
right the component already knows what
to do when State changes that that's the
beauty of building out these components
is we we get to put in all the logic set
hey when that state changes this is how
I need you to react right let's look at
something else let's look at um this
this
Bell
this Bell probably has a state of what
you figure out what the state might be
here
yeah it probably has a state remember
States just an object right let's just
keep it very simple for right now let's
just think about State as an object it
probably has a count property when that
count property goes from 16 to 17 what
does that component do
it reacts right it knows what to do it
knows how to go from 16 to 17. better
yet let's think about if it was zero
right let's say there's no notifications
right let's say there is no
notifications and it was just a dark
gray or dark blue
Bell
right there's no red box there's no
coloring as soon as it goes from zero to
one
that component knows how to react it
knows to all right now make it white now
bring in the red box now put in a number
of one right all of that
is contained in the component no chasing
down some JavaScript file no wild
conditional logic that's just all over
the place
no chasing down our style changes it's
all contained in that component and when
the state changed it knows how to react
if we were going back to the Dark Ages
and we had all this in a JavaScript file
right all these little bits of logic all
this conditional logic all this stuff in
a singular file is bad news
we would start messing up our
conditionals we would stop we would
start messing up like what happens when
we get new information it just becomes
not maintainable
and so the idea of bringing components
into the mix does quite a few things
components bring maintainability they
bring reusability the ability to have
props brings flexibility to the
components we've already written so we
don't wind up having a bunch of very
similar components we can have one and
kind of the unique changes we need for
each we can pass in as a prop and then
the last thing is this state
and each component can have its own
State and when that state changes the
component knows how to react that logic
that style everything is contained in
that one area we don't have to go chase
it down we don't have to worry about
when we remove components that it's
going to break some other places of our
code base we can add and remove them as
we see fit
does it make sense
why we might use components
all right is that is that kind of clear
like why we might use components
yes cool all right that's the goal for
tonight the goal for tonight is just to
understand all right
components might make our life a lot
easier as we start to develop more and
more complex uis
the reusability the maintainability uh
the ability to to not have to worry
about what happens when our state
changes right like all that's been coded
out for us right we we can just add and
remove them as we see fit awesome so
what I want to do now is I want to talk
through some of kind of the important
bits and Bobs when it comes to react
we're going to see some examples and
then we'll we'll end class
uh there's one other thing too since
we're just talking about State real
quick
um
and we're going to see it again in a
little bit but
think about all these things where state
is changing
right think about all these things where
state is changing
State changed let's just kind of state
change State change State change State
change day change day changed
change change change change change
change change
change
probably each of these third state
changing likes to change
change change change
I'm gonna stop here like all these
things that have to change
if we were doing it how we've been doing
it that's also a lot of what
this kind of I know it's a stretch here
but it's also a lot of what's happening
on the page
if we were to do this in the end yeah
exactly Shadow song it's a lot of
refreshing we don't want to have to
refresh anymore and so the beautiful
thing about react is it has something
called the virtual Dom uh has something
called the virtual Dom so what we're
actually doing is all of these
things are changing like as all this
dates changing and our and our
components are reacting
uh we don't actually have to refresh the
whole page and better yet we only wind
up refreshing the small tiny piece that
actually needs to be refreshed so we're
not repainting the whole Dom the whole
Dom tree we're using something called
the virtual Dom to compare the actual
Dom versus the change that we want and
we're making a patch to the actual Dom
that just changes this little piece and
so I have a I I really like from some of
the reading that we're gonna do there's
a really good example that highlights
this that we're gonna see like live and
I'm going to show you through
um some cool Chrome tricks how we can
actually see that the whole page is not
refreshing it's just the small things
that are
cool
now uh we have some
we have some some
some more nice I need to make we're
about to we're about to go into some
some more technical terms we're about to
see some code I don't really need you to
understand this right now
I I don't I don't really need to
understand these bigger Concepts I don't
need you to understand the the one-way
data flow versus two-way data binding or
any of that crap uh for for now let's
just let's just understand what
components are what's uh what's some
props what some State and we'll take it
from there
right
when we were using react there's kind of
two crucial apis that we're kind of
consuming react which contains all the
apis for like how we actually create
components and then react Dom which
tells us how to render those components
to the Dom so react actually gives us
the API for creating the individual
components and then react Dom enables us
to actually take those components and
put them into the Dom like that like we
have to have some mechanisms for doing
those two things and so these two apis
are what enable us to do it and we're
going to see them in some of our code
there's also another big component of
react and it's jsx
um jsx is just a syntax extension to
JavaScript and it's really just a
shortcut for this specific API and what
it does is it just helps us generate the
stuff that eventually spits out HTML
so we can kind of think of it almost
like our ejs it's going to look an awful
lot like JavaScript but some things are
going to be a little suspect and a
little bit different and we'll be
noticing that some some quirks to it
just like our ejs kind of looked like
our HTML but it really wasn't at the end
of the day we're just using it to
eventually build our component and spit
out the actual HTML
cool we'll go deeper with it next week
um
there's another really good resource
that I really love for react and a lot
of my examples are going to be kind of
built off of some of the stuff that
comes in this this uh this overview so
react.express is just like another
resource that I'd like for react
especially for some of the older stuff
that we'll be covering
we talked about
two big things that come to react
already we talked about props you can
just think about props as arguments that
are being passed into our components
just like when we had like functions and
we're able to pass into arguments to a
function you could think about your
props as the exact same thing it's a way
of right
right it's the same way of passing in uh
values into these components
right that's it
and then we also have uh state which is
just an object that's built into the
component and when that object changes
our component reacts and importantly
re-renders right so that reacting also
includes the re-rendering of that
component using that virtual Dom to make
that actual change in the Dom so if we
can kind of absorb kind of some of these
very high level Concepts it will be in a
good spot
remember that virtual Dom is a way of us
kind of looking at the Dom as it stands
right
right looking at the Dom as it stands
and saying I want to make very specific
changes and being able to make those
changes without having to re-render the
full Dom uh the way it works is that we
keep the real Dom and a virtual Dom we
make all of our changes on the virtual
Dom and based on what we change we say
hey just make this very simple update
right so as we start to build out our
components as we start to see these
things uh estate changing our components
reacting and needing to re-render we
take advantage of this virtual Dom to
make the specific individual changes
that we need to make
cool that's all the big stuff I'm going
to throw out to you for tonight I don't
really want to go too much deeper
because I think and you got to go
through the reading you got to go
through the materials first and then you
will come back on Tuesday to go deeper
into all these kind of higher level
Concepts
do I currently work with react all the
time
um I think it's something that you
should have in your repertoire right
you're having your repertoire I don't
think you need to go as deep with it as
you might think to get a job it's good
to understand these high level Concepts
it's good to understand what it might
bring to your code
right but I don't need you to go much
deeper than the materials that I'm
sharing so if you go through this class
and our classes next week
you go through the two courses I shared
Brad's course in the Ken C Dodds course
that's enough you really don't need more
than that for right now because there's
a good chance when you get to your job
they might not actually use react so
you're better off spending your time
right now especially as we go into the
hunt finishing up your 100 project
investing your data structures
algorithms making sure you're doing your
code words and all the other things I'm
asking the basics are enough to get the
job and as you figure out what your
local kind of job market is asking for
you might invest a little bit more react
you might invest a little bit more in
things like view or angular whatever it
might be but I just want you to see the
basics of what one of these UI type
libraries can do for you and you don't
really need to go super super super
super deep on it to get the job
cool
all right another warning
we're about to be bad he's about to see
some bad code
I'm about to see some bad code it's all
right we're baddies we're seeing bad
code it's all right
all right so we're gonna look through
some examples and these examples uh come
from the reading that I assigned and
there's three of them that are on code
sandbox and so we're going to look
through these different examples on code
sandbox we're going to play with them
and
um I just need you to let these Concepts
marinate in your brain uh the rest of
tonight over the weekend I really do
need you to start thinking about
components everywhere
um I like you can look at anything in
your life as components
and everything that you're doing please
over the next weekend just just think
about components right like like
when you're hungry and you're going into
the refrigerator you can see your
refrigerator of a component and your
refrigerator is made up of a bunch of
other components that are inside your
refrigerator right you might have almond
butter inside your refrigerator almond
butter is a component that exists inside
your refrigerator component and your
your your your almond butter right might
have a prop that you passed in of
crunchy or creamy right that you you
might have a crunchy almond butter you
might have a creamy almond butter right
and uh when when you eat it your state
might change right you might get bigger
I don't know right I know it's silly
but I really do want you to try this
I really do want you just to like take a
few moments throughout your weekend to
say all right what's in front of me how
could I view these as components
what could I view as props for these
components what would be the state of
these components and I want you to just
to really see
components everywhere
they're everywhere folks just gotta see
them they're everywhere
they're everywhere
all right and so let's see some
components together and then over the
weekend I need you to see them
everywhere else so there are three
examples here that come from the reading
uh they're all in code sandboxes which
are pretty cool uh these code sandboxes
just enable you to run code directly in
the browser so we're actually running
our react code in here and um right off
the Jump please
please
do not think you need to understand any
of this code
this is bad code
this is code that we will not be using
going forward
uh this component is not how we would
write components in the future
it's going to come in the reading so I
want to see it now together I want to
show you how can we did these older
class components uh but this is like not
this is us being baddies writing bad
code I do like it because it helps it
very simply to see some really key
features that we need to see uh before
we move on to how we would actually
probably use components in the future
cool also it's not something that you
would ever have memorized uh it's not
something that you would ever have like
in your memory it's just an example for
me to show you how these things come
together
cool you can see that we're importing
react uh what is that going to give us
the ability to do
we import react what is that going to
give us the ability to do
yeah create components remember that
react is the API that enables us to
create the component so we need that we
want to create the components and then
uh when we import react Dom what is that
going to give us the ability to do
yep to enable us to render them to the
Dom right remember we actually have to
put this stuff into the Dom if we want
our users to see it on the client uh so
one reactive was to create components
and the other enables us to put it into
the Dom and so you can actually see that
we're using a little bit of what here
a little bit of what
we talked about earlier tonight
a little bit of the structuring right to
give us the component that's coming from
react and so here with this kind of
older class-based syntax you can see
that I am making a component uh that's
coming from the components in react so
this class of card is the component I am
making but it's just a react component I
get the name whatever the heck I want I
could have called this zaboomafoo it
would have been fine but since I'm
making cards that you see over here I
called it cards
and here is everything I am using to
make this card component
and then down here is me actually
rendering these card components to the
Dom now
if we look we can see kind of our
component is in this
index.js file and we also have an
index.html file this is going to be very
very common we're going to have some
just very simple HTML
and this is where we're going to
actually append all of our components
right all of our components are going to
be appended into this div right remember
we're going to have components those
components have to make their way into
the Dom the way we make them into the
Dom is we actually just place them into
the Dom in this area so if we go back
and we look at our index.js we can see
all right we're going to select that div
which had the ID of app like if we look
it has the ID of app we're going to
select that div that has the ID of app
and we're going to render our elements
to that place in the Dom
so all we're saying here is all this
stuff that I've just highlighted is
going to make its way into this div
this is how we're going to place our
components into the Dom so just very
quickly we have the ability to create
components we have the ability to render
them into the Dom down here we're saying
hey where in the Dom I putting this
stuff and what am I putting into the Dom
it's this stuff right here so that's
very high level
just so you can have a rough
understanding that we're going to build
our components we're going to put them
into the Dom it's not magic we actually
have to tell it where to go where to put
the stuff into the Dom and that's what
we're doing with these kind of other
simple files now the thing that we
really care about is right here
these three lines
right the SE three lines are our actual
what
these three lines are our actual what
yeah these are our actual components we
can see up here that we've created the
component called card
right we've created the component called
card and what we are doing down here is
actually using the this card component
and we're just having to use the card
component three times right we use that
component that we created three times we
did card card card
right we use that component three times
we can actually see what this component
spits out
what does this component spit out
yeah this component spits out a div
right it spits out a div and the cool
thing is you can see that it that div
also has some Style
and so we can see that style is coming
from up here well style spread the
default style so the default style will
be a color of white a border color of
red a border size of one a border Style
style of solid we're also going to have
some margins some padding and then
wait before we get to this line 16. it
looks a little weird here
border color border size border Style
camo case
what's going on here
yeah it's not actually CSS this is the
jss syntax we just talked about that
that extension right that it's not
actually CSS kind of like how our ejs
was not actually HTML same thing here
this is not actually CSS this is the jsx
syntax that's going to help us to
eventually spit out the stuff that we
care about so it's going to look a
little funky it's going to look a little
different and remember this is bad code
we might actually have our CSS in a
separate file and then just use that
file inside the component but for now we
have everything together so we have some
base Styles here the default style we
spread them into style and then that
style is going to eventually be applied
to our div so when I use card down here
I know that this card is going to be a
div
when I use card again here I know that
it's going to be a div when I use card
down here again I know that it's going
to be a div now
each of these cards here are
fundamentally all the same but what is
different about them
their colors are all different
go back and think to our dots on the
Facebook UI
were the gorgeous styling were the dots
fundamentally different between like the
marketplace thoughts or their friends
logging in dots were there were there
any differences there
no it was just a color
we wanted to be able to use the same
component we wanted just those
components to look a little different
depending on what we wanted them to look
like and so the beautiful thing here is
I have this lovely card component
that spits out a div however on line 16
you're seeing that each component will
have a background color that comes from
the where
where this background color come from
will come from the props
exactly it'll come from the props and so
when we look at these cards
we see these cards here we can see that
each card has a prop
what is that prop that each of these
cards comes with
yeah each of these cards has a color
prop
right each of these cars has a color
and the Beautiful Thing is whenever I go
to use these card components I can pass
in those different props right and each
of my components even though they are
the same will now each have a different
background color right this color prop
right here
is being used
so the very first card will have a
background color of sky blue that's why
this one looks sky blue
the next card
will have a color prop of Steel blue
all right so that will have a background
color of Steel blue and then the last
card component has a prop of the color
yellow
and we have this lovely
background color of yellow now the
yellow is very hard to read that that
that white on yellow does not look good
so if I wanted this last card component
to be something different uh it'd be
very easy to change it so what color
should I change it to
purple people are saying
let's change it to purple
cool
there we go and so now it's purple we're
able to pass in a different prop
and when that component goes to be
rendered we can use those colors uh so
that we can reuse the same card
component over and over again but have
the flexibility for certain things to be
slightly different
we could have a card we could have a um
post component
where we were going and making our posts
but we would have props on them that
were like likes and one could be a heart
and one could be a thumbs up right we
have the ability to pass in different
props that will do different things
inside of our components we still get
the maintainability and the reusability
of the components throughout our entire
application we can still get the
flexibility should we need it by these
props
cool
I love the color scheme no
all right
so this is the beginning of kind of
starting to see these components come to
life we're starting to see props come
through
um I want to be able to look at a few
other examples another example of
props but also another example of state
so we're going to take our break we're
at the top of the hour when we come back
from break we're going to see two more
examples that further our understanding
of props but also help us understand
State as well we'll get to see some cool
things like the virtual Dom in action
individual re-rendering and so we'll see
a lot of neat stuff when we come back
from break
let's take a look at another component
here
remember
you're absolving yourself from actually
understanding any of this code it
doesn't matter we're just here to see
some components we're here to see some
props we're here to see some State
understand what they might bring exactly
as well says to be Baddies
let's take a look at another one here
all right let's go ahead and change this
number right now it says at 10 degrees
Fahrenheit water is considered to be a
solid state of matter let's go ahead and
change this to
um let's go and do 33
and as soon as I typed in 33 we could
see what what happened
what happened here
oh
it
reacted
foreign
so for it to react what else do we know
happened here if if this component is
reacting what what what what happened
yeah the state changed exactly uh the
state changed when the state changed the
component knew how to react now what do
we think in this component example
without looking is State like what are
we keeping track of in terms of State
for this component
yeah in this case it's the temperature
and so if we look at this water
component we can see that it has a state
object and it has a current temp
property of 10.
right it has a current property of 10.
the cool thing is I have this method
here called set temperature
and when the current temperature changes
you can see I'm actually setting the
state
all right I'm setting state to be the
new temperature
if we go all the way down here
we can see that this component
right we can see that this component is
a div
this component has an input and a
paragraph right and we can see that it
has this lovely like on change method
once again absolve yourself from
understanding uh this code but the idea
here is that whenever the number changes
we're running this set temperature
method
right so right here when the number
changes in this input we're running this
set temperature method right and that
set temperature Method All That
temperature method is doing is it is
setting the state to be that new
temperature so when I typed in 33
when I typed in 33 this on change method
fired
and it ran the set temperature method
right the set temperature method change
the state from what it was 10 before to
now 33.
right
the 33 and when that set state ran it
changed the current temperature property
on state from 10 to 33.
since the state changed what is this
component going to do
react exactly it's going to react now
how it reacts we actually get the code
out so you can see our lovely render
method here
and we can see all the stuff that's
going to happen for us to render out
this div
right the goal of this component is to
render out this div that has the input
and also has this paragraph and we could
see inside the paragraph that we have
the this dot state that current temp
which is pulling the current temperature
right it's pulling the current
temperature from our state so right now
current temperature would be what
right now current temperature will be
what
33 nice and then state of matter we're
using here as another variable that we
haven't actually be this defined yet so
the things they're going to change in
this paragraph or the Cur or are the
current temperature that's coming from
our state
and then uh the solid liquid or gas will
leave out plasma for now right it's not
liquid or gas that it could be
and so if we look at this component a
little bit deeper here we have our state
which has the current temperature
property we have a method that changes
that state whenever the value and the
input changes and then we have some some
logic here we're going to say hey if
that current temperature and state is
less than 32 then our state of matter
will be solid if it's greater than 212
or equal to greater or equal to 212 then
it'll be gas and if it's not solid or
gas we're going to say that it's a
liquid
right
I'm going to say that it's a liquid and
so when this component goes to render
and it renders out this div it's going
to pull the value from a state which is
33 and it's going to plug in whatever
state of the matter was in this case it
is liquid
right it'll be liquid and so if we look
down here at the actual component
right if we look down here at the actual
component we can see that we're using
the water component
and this water component has all of this
stuff nice neat and contained in the
component not only do we have the the
state we have all the logic for what
happens when that state changes
we don't have to go chase it down
somewhere it's not in some other wild
JavaScript file it's all right here it's
more organized it's more maintainable if
I want to update this to also include
plasma right maybe it's not just gonna
be water
I'm gonna have plasma as well we don't
have to worry about going and chasing
down something in our Javascript file we
can come right to this component we can
change just this component and only this
component and add the things we want to
change
cool
if we wanted to add a Centigrade yes
that's a really good that's a really
good thing to think about we could have
a prop
called
type of temp right we could have we
could have a prop called type of temp
and you could pass in Celsius or you
could pass in Freedom right you passed
in Celsius then we would have to have
some Logic for not being 32 to 12 or
whatever right and if you passed in
Freedom then we could we could keep
these numbers right and so it's up to
you if you want to use Celsius or
Freedom Units and so that'd be a really
great prop we could then reuse this
water component we could have a water
component
that maybe we have a
maybe we have something on our site that
detects based on maybe somebody's IP
address or their location if they're in
say the UK or the land of the free right
and so if they're the land of the free
then we would use the Freedom Units and
if they're in the UK they could use
celsius and we could maybe pass in what
we want this component to do with a prop
right
cool
so Props there's like a function you can
think of it as like arguments on a
function you're passing something into
the component it gives a little bit more
flexibility to our components so we
don't wind up having a bunch of very
similar components that are just tweaked
in very little ways we can reuse our
components with the flexibility that we
need
cool
all right so this is just a very simple
way of seeing State we have the state
object that has a current temp property
when it changes our component knows how
to react it'll re-render with the logic
that we have contained here and we'll
wind up seeing different stuff in the
Dom like we can play with it like let's
go back to zero we'll get solid let's do
213 we'll get gas and so we're seeing
this component
based on state changing react and
re-render now
the re-rendering we haven't been able to
see that well right the re-rendering we
haven't been able to see that well I
want to show a last example where we can
see the virtual dominant action and see
this re-rendering actually
um
actually take place okay
thank you for the gifted Subs I
appreciate it for being here thank you
all right
how does it know that it updated it
knows that it updated because the state
changed that's the whole point of react
right when the state changes the
component reacts we don't have to code
anything else right we don't have to
code anything else that's like an event
like we don't like we have an event
listener here that's listening for the
on change of the input but we don't have
to have anything that says like all
right when it does change like do all
this stuff it just we're calling this
method this method all that this method
does is change the state right so if we
look at our on change down here when
this number changes inside the input
it's going to call this set temperature
method when this set temperature method
runs the only thing that set temperature
method is doing is changing the state
and when the state changes
the component reacts right gonna Force
the re-rendering it's going to work
through all the logic that we've we've
put together and then this div will be
probably different if the state changed
in one of these three conditions
automatically exactly
is that what set state is really for so
that state is just to literally change
the state
we want to change it from whatever we
want to change it from 213 to zero the
way that I have changed state is by
setting the state from 213 to now zero
so the current temperature value is now
zero the state has changed since the
state has changed our component reacts
it's going to force the re-rendering all
this stuff is going to be taken into
account and we're going to have a new
div that is spit out
we're going to talk about you state yeah
but not tonight
Catherine can hey thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
ah Too Legit to Quit I actually point
out something really interesting
how let's let's do this let's type in
213 again
how many times did State change
yeah right now state has changed three
times
right when we changed it from zero
to two that was a state changed 21 21 21
that was a state change 13 State change
right it's just the way we've coded it
for now where each of those on changes
is its own thing
uh and so what you're noticing is that
it's it's super what
it's super what
super yeah super fast
all right it's super fast
all right super fast
I'm watching a lot of like old like
Muhammad Ali Clips I'm fast and he's
getting ready to fight
um
Frasier on past
hit the light switch I was in bed before
the lights went off I'm fast
always gets me oh bad man exactly
the best one is he uh makes a reporter
hold up their hand
and it's like a three minute set up for
how he's gonna hit the hand and like
he's telling him like how to hold his
hand how to do it more correct and
eventually it just goes he's like oh do
you want to do it again
I'm fat
all right
so yeah it's really fast and why
why is it so fast though
bathing ape it's bad code
don't worry about it
yeah it's fast because of the virtual
Dom right I'm not actually I'm not
actually re-rendering everything I'm not
re-rendering this whole page I'm
re-rendering just this piece here and
that piece there and that's why it's so
fast right it's that virtual Dom that's
enabling us to
um
to do it so fast right and we were doing
this like the old way that we were
updating the Dom nah
it's just it's just not
it's just not good right it's it's not
as fast right and so this virtual Dom is
something that we're gonna see now
all right
here's the last example I want to walk
through tonight
and what we're going to notice
is that we have
how many components right here
actually let me open this in a new page
how many components am I using
kind of a tricky question
it's one component
but how many times am I reusing it
four I technically I could break this
down into like two individual pieces
here if I wanted to but let's say it's
one but I'm reusing it four times
and without even looking at the code
what do we know
when I reuse these components four times
what what are some things I'm going to
be using here
if I'm seeing four uses of the component
what am I also having with these
components what what are you noticing
here
yeah
this component is going to have some
props and there's gonna be a prop for
a color notice how each of these colors
is a slightly different color of blue
right and they're all different sizes so
even though I'm reusing the same
component four times each time I use it
the font size
and the color is different and so that
means when I go and look at this code I
can expect that there are at least two
props
that are being passed in for each of
these components let's take a look
all right here you can see I'm reusing
my counter component four times and you
can see I'm passing in a color prop
and a size prop
all right color prop and the size
property so we can see the very first
counter component has a light blue and
size 16. that's light blue size 16 Sky
Blue 32 steel blue 80 and then dark blue
and 140. same component
different props that are changing the
color and the size
let's go ahead and take a look at this
component
so here's my counter component
right here's my counter component
you can see the end goal of this counter
component is to spit out a div
that has the H1 of doesn't change and
then a paragraph
that has the current count inside of it
and the specific color and font size
once again
absolve yourself from understanding how
this code works this is bad code
we will we will write better code in the
future
just understand that we're using props
and state here so the goal of this
counter component is to spit out a div
that has an H1 which is the doesn't
change and then a paragraph that's going
to have a different color and size based
on the props that I pass in
right so you can see that I'm able to
pass in color sky blue size 32 and I'm
able to use a little bit of what on line
15 to not have to set up individual
color and individual size
yeah a little bit of Destruction right a
little bit of destructuring right to to
pass in that color and size
and we're also going to be using count
which is the property on our state
so here where you see count it's
actually the property that's coming from
our state
now
what you'll notice
is that this state is continuing to
change
all right which means that this
component is constantly doing what over
and over again
yeah it's re-rendering the state is
changing
and as the state changed our component
reacts and it re-renders now the cool
thing is we have this component did
Mount method for folks that did the
reading that read the docs what is
component did Mount what type of method
is it curious did the reading
yeah it is a life cycle method beautiful
cool
now the beautiful thing here is
this component didn't Mount lifecycle
method when does it kick off when does
it start running
component did Mount when do you think it
actually starts
yeah at the beginning when when it's
actually yep
it's called after the Dom has been
mounted exactly once this component has
been rendered to the Dom this method
fires right this method fires and we can
see that the only thing this method does
is it sets up a set interval
and set interval is going to run once
every second this is a thousand
milliseconds so every second set
interval is going to run
right so once the component renders to
the Dom this component starts it sets up
the set interval and set interval is
going to run every second
right now every single second that this
runs what are we doing
what are we doing
yeah
we're adding one
so every single second we are adding one
to our count but notice the method right
here
set state
we are updating our state
to be whatever count was plus one so
every second we are changing our state
right every second we are changing our
state which means every second what else
is happening
when State changes our component reacts
and it's forcing the re-rendering of our
component now
so I said what is component then Mount
component the amount is a life cycle
method it's just a function that runs
once this component renders for the
first time once this component is in the
Dom for the first time this method runs
and it sets up our interval
right so this interval is going to run
every second going forward and every
second it's changing the state to be
whatever count was plus one
right it's a homework method exactly uh
so now State's going to change every
second each time the state changes
this component's going to react and
re-render
all right and re-render
and we can see the re-rendering happen
here but now I want to show you
something really cool
if
this is truly react
what does react come with that's Gonna
Save Us
a lot of
it's gonna it's gonna it's gonna help us
in a very significant way what does
react come with that's going to help us
with this specific example
yeah the virtual Dom if this is updating
every second that would be a lot of
refreshing of the page to make this work
but with the virtual Dom we don't really
do that and I want to show you it uh so
you can actually get what I mean now in
our inspect tools
so if you go right click inspect uh
we've been kind of just seeing like a
lot of these tools that we've been using
and if you think that this is just all
that's there why do I got a surprise for
you actually if you click these three
dots and you go to more tools look at
all this stuff that's built into the
Chrome tools
and uh there is a rendering tool here
and
um for folks that have photo sensitive
epilepsy I'm going to need you to stop
watching and I'll tell you when to start
watching again
um so I'm going to turn something on I
want to show an example but it will be
flashing green on the on the screen so
if you're sensitive to flashing green
colors uh please stop watching now give
you another five seconds and I'll I'll
save verbally when to start watching
again
okay I'm going to turn something on
I click this paint flashing and what's
happening on the screen right now for
folks that can't see is the text that
says doesn't change is not actually
being repainted this flashing green
around the numbers is actually the part
of the Dom that is being re-rendered
this paint flashing shows what is
actually being re-rendered on the page
and what you'll notice is doesn't change
is not being re-rendered it's only the
numbers that are flashing green because
that's the only thing due to the virtual
Dom that is actually updating so notice
my page is not refreshing it's just
these individual pieces that are
updating
all right paint flashing is turned back
off uh if you have uh epilepsy absolute
epilepsy you can you can start watching
again I've turned off that feature
all right uh so the way I got to this
was I clicked on the three dots the
vertical ellipses more tools rendering
look at all this other crap that's in
here rendering and then there's this
paint flashing
um check box you can turn on
cool
so we could see
that
even though
this whole div is being re-rendered the
only thing that had to change was this
paragraph So the virtual Dom was able to
look at the actual Dom and submit a
patch directly that said hey I don't
need everything to refresh just this
paragraph is the thing that's changing
and that's the only thing that got
re-rendered on the page
cool
all right so
tonight
we saw quite a few things
we saw the ability to create components
and components bring what to our code
what what do components bring into our
life when we look at something when we
look at something like
let's look at something like this now
when we look at something like Facebook
what is what are these these components
bring into yeah maintainability
reusability right the ability to like
have our code in one place and keep it
maintained the ability to reuse
components as we need to and not have to
keep adding more and more spaghetti code
into the mix not adding more and more
complicated JavaScript to mix that we're
going to forget how to update so ads
that maintainability
it adds that reusability we saw that our
components also have props and what are
these props enabling our components to
be able to do
what is it what does it add to our
components
yeah adds flexibility we don't wind up
with a bunch of components that are all
very very similar but just changing a
few tweaks here and there with the props
we can have the red dots and the green
dots that are the exact same component
but pass in the colors that we want them
to change to right we could have posts
on Facebook and post on Instagram where
the only thing that's different is the
likes and we can pass in a heart on
Instagram and a thumbs up on Facebook so
the the props add flexibility uh to our
components
and then last but not least uh State
gives us the ability right State gives
us the ability to contain all of our
logic in one place and have our
components know what to do when that
state changes we're not chasing down
random JavaScript we're not chasing down
different logic in different parts of
our application all the logic about what
should happen to that component
specifically because this is tied to our
UI think of all these UI flourishes that
would have been a hot mess to maintain
and now all those changes are contained
in the component and when the state
changes when it goes from 16 to 17 our
Bell component knows what to do when the
stuff in the marketplace goes from True
from false to true the component knows
what to do when
the shortcuts goes from it goes from
four to five our component knows what to
do and we're not chasing down that logic
anywhere our components are able to see
if the state changes they're able to
react be able to re-render and since
we're using react we're not refreshing
the whole page we're using this other
wonderful benefit called the virtual Dom
to just submit patches to the actual Dom
and just change the things that we care
about making this way faster as we start
building out our uis
cool
so do we see the value that react could
bring to the table
we see what it could do for our uis
yep cool all right
and I did my job this evening I don't
want to go any deeper than that what I
would like for you to do this weekend is
please
read through this free code Camp article
on destructuring as you saw it came up a
lot and you already read the docs for
homework
where's the other reading
this and next week of course is react
there are two new bits of homework that
I need you to get through ideally this
weekend uh one is uh the goat Traverse
media's course on react
um kind of covers all the big changes
that have happened uh there has been a
big switch from kind of class-based
components to functional components
things like Hooks and all this wonderful
stuff was introduced and so
if you're reading the docs uh it kind of
gives you some of the original ways
things were done uh Brad's video will
kind of walk you through some of the
newer stuff and then uh Ken C Dodd's
course is completely free and it's one
of the best react courses ever made uh
so you can definitely check out these
two resources please before next week so
all the heavy Concepts you've kind of
already been introduced to kind of do it
as like a first pass and then we'll kind
of keep working together on Tuesday and
Thursday
um
one thing that we have to keep in mind
is that we're we're slowly starting to
switch away right uh the the source of
learning will will not be me going
forward right the source of learning
will will be
on you
because we only have what five more
classes left together
bless all the hunt Tober shenanigans
and then you're on the job
by yourself
and when you're on the job by yourself
you're going to join day one and they're
going to use a tool or technology that
you have never heard of
right a tool of technology that we did
not cover in this boot camp or sorry
this experience all right and you're
gonna have to be able to figure it out
and work through it on your own so react
is one of those topics that I'm going to
introduce the basics the why the how but
a lot of the heavy lifting is going to
be put on you to go deep with the
materials that I'm sharing and to work
together next week to go even deeper so
I'm I'm slowly slowly fading away y'all
slowly slowly fading away and and and
hoping that you right that you that you
understand that that is an attempt to to
ease your transition uh when you get on
the job
all right
October is upon us uh remember that
everything is due on Tuesday if you
weren't able to meet the deadlines
before that's okay get it in on Tuesday
uh we're gonna have some fun events
starting to happen before October
officially starts uh but I need your
materials in by Tuesday uh that means
you should have been checking in for
every class you should have all the
homework done and up to date you should
be doing you should have been doing your
networking uh you've been pushing your
your your code Wars every day and
remember I'm asking you to each week do
some prep for hunttober specifically
with methods
right specifically with methods so that
when we are focusing on how to interview
and we're focusing on how to get through
technical interviews I know that we're
all kind of at a base level meaning that
I don't have to worry that you haven't
seen these methods before we'll still go
over the harder ones but I'm I'm
expecting you to come into October
having seen and played with these
methods uh explored them understand what
they do how they work and that way we
can put them into practice during our
month together
hey blah me too
all right the other big one Tuesday your
client signature your approved PR
whatever it may be you're submitting
also due Tuesday your 100 hours project
beautiful MVP do Tuesday it's been a
blast seeing all of them on Twitter it's
been wild some of you really kind of
knocked it out the park it's been really
cool to see all the MVPs come in
you're not even done yet you're not even
not even fully done
all right uh thank you for sharing them
I I definitely is definitely was really
uh really pumped to see all the hard
work you all been doing gearing up for
October all the hard work you're doing
as you come across the finish line of
program and so uh thank you for sharing
and thank you for putting in that work
right
all right at this this community is only
possible because of the hard work that
you put in to do all this stuff uh and
it shows folks are getting amazing
opportunities folks are learning you're
learning in community which is even
better and so uh shout out to everyone
that's still here shout out to everyone
that's putting in the work I love to see
it